# Hashmaps and O(1) search complexity

### What is a hashmap in python?

Hashmap is a type of data structure that maps keys to its value pairs(implement abstaract array data types).

It basically makes use of a function that computes an index value that in turn holds the elements to be searched, inserted, removed, etc

In general, hash tables store key-value pairs and the key is generated using a hash function. 

Hash maps in Python are implemented throught the built-in `dictionary` data type. The keys of dictionary in Python are generated by a hashing function. The elements of a dictionary are not ordered and they can be changed. 

### Hash Table vs Hashmap : Differnece between Has Table and Hashamp in python

| **Hash Table** | **Hash map**| 
|:--- | :--- | 
|  Synchronized | Non-Synchronized | 
| Fast | Slow | 
| Allows one null key and more than one null values | Does not allows null keys or values | 

### More detailed of Hash Map
In short, `Hash maps` are **Indexed data structures**. A Hash map makes use of a `Hash funciton` to compute an index with a key into an array of buckets or slots. Its value is mapped to the bucket with the corresponding index. The key is ***unique and immutable***. 

Think a hsah map like a cabinet having drawers with labels for the things stored in them. 
> For example
    Storing user information-consider email as the key, and we cna map values corresponding to that user such as the first name, last name ... to a bucket. 

The hash map design will include the following functions:

- set_val(key, value): Inserts a key-value pair into the hash map. If the value already exists in the hash map, update the value.

- get_val(key): Returns the value to which the specified key is mapped, or “No record found” if this map contains no mapping for the key.

- delete_val(key): Removes the mapping for the specific key if the hash map contains the mapping for the key.

### Hash function 
Let's say you have a new user to add. The new user-data is consist of Key & Value.
By using a `Hash function`, you can feed the new user-data and the hash funciton uses the `Key` of the new user-data and gives you some kind of `Integer Output`. This integer output can be used as map to sepecific index.
